---
tags:
  - CharacterSheet
  - Resource
---
Resources are anything that can be counted or evaluated, rise and fall in number or value, and can influence the outcome of scenarios.

- **[[FAVOR]]**. Favor is a power bestowed by one entity, to another, and it doesn't even have to be alive. Warriors can favor a specific sword over any other sword, clerics and warlocks vie for the favor of their patrons, and spirits bestow blessings and abilities over those they favor. Abilities might cost points of favor, which then have to be replenished by earning the being's trust, or may passively scale with the maximum amount of favor, or the amount you currently have. You may have the favor of a single animal spirit, or animals in general, or a single god, or an entire pantheon.
- **[[REPUTATION]]**. This also has multiple sub-types, based on what you represent to different factions. A high reputation with Elves might help grant you audience with their king, and "Friend to Elves" might buy you some respect with the human village on the outskirts of the forest, but it might also earn you their ire, while "Slayer of Elves" might grant you a bonus to intimidation checks. Like favor, you can trade in reputation, staking your reputation on a promise, that if delivered, will increase your reputation, but if failed, will cost a greater amount.
- **[[MANA]]**. The catch-all magical resource, most living creatures have a mana capacity based on their mental aptitude. Mana is energy that is used to facilitate alterations and transmutations of natural laws, greasing the wheels of an otherwise very scientific methodology. Mana can be condensed, forming packets that enable the delivery of more energy within a single moment than 'liquid' mana, and some spells include processes that require these, as they're too unstable to be cast slowly over time. Mana also has essence, a kind of flavoring that denotes where it came from; it can be elementally attuned, or to a living creature from where it came, and this allows for sympathetic magical practices, such as locating a son by reading the magical essence of the father, or having stronger pyromancy by using mana reaped from a blaze.
- **[[SPIRIT POINTS]]**. Another kind of internal energy, but one associated with the soul, and so noticeably absent from undead and machines, but abundant in spirits, which can be used to animate such creatures. SP can be spent to amplify the exertion of will on other creatures, or to bolster yourself against outside influences. However, SP can be spent in excess, causing a kind of "spiritual hollowing" that causes the creature to less assertive and more vulnerable to outside influence, but that can be recovered over time, but below a certain threshold, "soulless" confers maximum penalties, without the chance to recover naturally.
- **[[COIN]]**. A basic resource in any society, the value of this currency is based largely on the willingness of others to recognize it. Because of this, articles such as gems may be traded in place of coin, and different nations may mint different currency to use within their borders. Coin as a mechanic can be overly simplified for the sake of a smoother game, using just one currency the world over, or expanded out for use in games that involve trade, international relations, or currencies that mean more to secret societies.
- **[[FOOD]]/[[WATER]]/[[MEDICINE]]**. Basic resources, but still important nonetheless. This is usually waived in many games, but if the game takes place over long journeys, or involve securing resources for a community, there are many gameplay systems that revolve around them.
- **[[MATERIALS]]**. Effectively, any item that is processed, is consumed, or is used in some way to increase the value of another material. This might mean components for a ritual, ingredients for a meal, metals for smithing, or chemicals for mixing. This section requires an entire post of it's own, but Material Cost can also be waived by any playtable that doesn't feel like micromanaging such things. It does represent a non-gold, non-reputation reward for exploration though.
- **[[BATTERY]]**. Also called Energy, this is a storage house that grants power to electrical devices. This is more for Road and Ruin's sci-fi elements, but it's important to note that Batteries, Mana, and Spirit Points aren't ordinarily convertible between each other. A Generator might create an amount of Energy over a period of time, while different devices use different amounts of energy for different predetermined uses.
- **[[EXERTION]]**. Also called Stamina, this represents the physical limits a body can be pushed within spans of time. Drawing from an Exertion Pool grants the stamina needed to sprint distances farther and faster, move heavy weights, and perform combat maneuvers, but dipping below Exertion thresholds imparts Exhaustion, a penalty to reaction speed and Exertion regeneration. Performing activities a character is proficient in refunds more Exertion points once they finish the task, but never 100%, so all characters must take a seat and rest eventually.