---
tags:
  - Magic
  - Mana
  - MP
---
Mana is an energy resource, passively generated by all things, and some consider it to be the building blocks of matter and life in the universe. It flows through all things like a cosmic wind, the living breathe it in and out, as well as generate their own, adding to the mix, and it flows like lightning through the earth. 

There are a variety of sources of mana, and an incredibly vast number of applications of it, most commonly called [[SPELL]]s.

Mana usually written as MP, or Mana Points, as a shorthand.

### MANA CAPACITY
Living creatures, unless otherwise stated, have a maximum mana capacity equal to the sum of their three [[MENTAL ATTRIBUTE]]s. This is regardless of the form it takes, and trying to overstock on mana can be dangerous, even damaging, as mana bursts and rips through it's container.

Non-living materials tend to not carry an amount of mana of any real significance, but under the right circumstances, wood, stone, metals, and gems can be made to store mana.

### MANA RECOVERY
##### MANA GENERATION
Living creatures replenish an amount of mana at a rate equal to the average of their three [[MENTAL ATTRIBUTE]]s per day, over time.
- If counting in 6-[[SPAN]] days, that comes out to approximately 5% per span, or 30% of total per day.
- EX. A creature with an attribute total of 9 recovers ~3 mana per day, or 1MP/2 Spans.
##### MANA GLEANING
Mana can be harvested from particularly magical sources via a [[RITUAL]], either by skimming excess mana from a source that generates it's own mana, or destroying a source, releasing a burst of energy.

#### MANA CHANNELING
Both creatures and materials can be metaphysically shaped with arcane channels that aid, or even enable outright, the casting of spells, or forcibly twisted for the continued maintenance of an ongoing spell. These spells are called [[ENCHANTMENT]]s, and may persist for as long as the caster concentrates on maintaining these channels, or even permanently.

#### MANA CLUSTERS
Mana is considered to be in a form of metaphysical liquid state, swirling about the spirit and soul. Through meditation and ritual, mana can be condensed into a more powerful, yet inflexible form called a [[CLUSTER]], of 2-5 mana each, over an amount of time equal to your success amount per hour. Clusters can also be dismantled, dissolved into their liquid amount, the same way.

Some spells require clusters of the appropriate size to be cast at all, as the magic is too volatile to be built slowly over time.

Spells that consume a cluster for power use the entirety of a cluster in the casting, but cast in the amount of time that only a single point of mana would require.

Mana clusters may also be tinged with the [[ESSENCE]] of their origin, whether that mana was harvested from a leyline, an element, or a living creature.

#### LONG-TERM RULES
If using [[LONG-TERM RULES]], for stories that take place over many days, weeks, months, or even years, decades, or centuries, some adjustments can be specified:
- MANA CAPACITY: You may multiply the capacity of mana by 10. (9 = 90)
- MANA GENERATION: Continue to recover approximately 5% per span.
- MANA GLEANING: Harvesting mana recovers individual points, rather than multiples of 10.
