---
tags:
  - Magic
  - Spell
---
>IN SHORT: Casting a spell requires [[MANA]] or a [[CLUSTER]], time based on the amount, and a METHOD using [[ARTIFACT]]s, [[GESTURE]], [[LANGUAGE]], and/or Material Components to improve a skill check that determines the outcome. Long spells may require [[CONCENTRATION]].

Magic is a common theme in many stories, and acts as an element of many fantastical worlds, abilities that stir up arcane secrets, the wisdom of the ancients, and pacts with dark powers.

Spells are broadly defined as any ability or action that consumes [[MANA]], an energy resource passively generated by all things, but some use [[SPIRIT POINTS]] instead, or in combination. Indeed, most of these effects are described as "spell-like abilities", rather than "spells", specifically.

### [[METHOD]]
Those who can wield magic require a spellcasting method, as a combination of:
- An [[ARTIFACT]], such as a Wand, Staff, or Trinket
- [[GESTURE]], with one or both hands
- Spoken word, using [[LANGUAGE]]
- Material components

-ADDUP: Each proficient method adds up to +5 to the final value.
-OUTCOME: Each proficient method reduces the Difficulty by up to +1.

### COST
Spells require [[MANA]], woven into the shapes you would have the universe take. Some spells require a [[CLUSTER]], or otherwise have an amplified effect for using one.

Mana is considered to be in a form of metaphysical liquid state, swirling about the spirit and soul. Through meditation and ritual, mana can be condensed into a more powerful, yet inflexible form called a [[CLUSTER]]. 

#### TIME
Casting a spell requires an amount of time pips equal to 10x the amount of mana as the spell requires:

| MANA | TIME PIPS | SECONDS |                                                   |
| ---- | --------- | ------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 1    |           | 1min    |                                                   |
| 2    |           | 10min   |                                                   |
| 3    |           | 1hr     | THIS VALUES ARE UNDER DEVELOPMENT                 |
| 4    |           | 12hrs   | HIGH YIELD MAGIC SHOULD TAKE MINUTES, NOT SECONDS |
| 5    |           | 1 day   |                                                   |
The spell begins casting at the moment of your declared Intention, or Reaction. After this, the spell is at risk of dispel attempts, and counterattack.

Casting using a [[CLUSTER]] reduces the amount of necessary time pips down to the cost of one mana.

#### [[CONCENTRATION]]
Some spells require a higher degree of dedication to produce their effects, especially for effects that persist over a prolonged period of time without an [[ENCHANTMENT]], using a Focus saving throw.
 -ADDUP: Generate a minimum of one skill success to maintain concentration, which is impaired by taking damage or counterspell attempts.
 -OUTCOME: Each roll must be successful in order to maintain concentration.
 -For each method, you may only allocate resources to one concentration target at a time, and be DISTRACTED for each target if concentrating on more than one.
 
- [[MAINTAINED CONCENTRATION]]: At the start of each round the spell is active, roll Successfully to maintain the effect to the following round.
- [[DECAYING CONCENTRATION]]: At the start of each round, roll a new concentration check, taking the lower of the old and new value, until the spell fails.
- [[CRESCENDO CONCENTRATION]]: At the start of each round, roll a new concentration check, taking the new value if it's higher, and ending the spell if it's lower. Some effects count the number of rounds a spell was active, called the [[CRESCENDO VALUE]], while others have a [[CRESCENDO FINALE]], or burst, if you choose to end the spell without rolling, which may have benefits earlier in the spell's lifespan.

#### [[DISPEL]]
Also called a counterspell, as a special action, a creature who's prepared with the methods to cast a spell may spend a point of mana to attempt to disrupt and unravel the efforts of another spellcaster that they understand is being cast.
In this contested [[CONCENTRATION]] roll, 
- ADDUP: generating a Concentration value above the target's own value ends the spell.
- If the target rolled a 23, and you rolled a 27, the spell would end.
- OUTCOME: reduce the target's Concentration value by an amount equal to your success value, as an additional negative modifier.
- If the target rolled 3 Above, and you rolled 5 Above, the spell would be reduced to Failure. If you rolled 3 Above, the spell would be reduced to Fail But, and 2 Above would reduce the spell to Success But.

### [[TYPES OF SPELLS]]

| NAME             | DESCRIPTION                                                                |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [[CONVERSE]]     | Transmission of speech, concept, image, or memory.                         |
| [[SPATIAL]]      | Warping the nature of dimensions of a three-dimensional area.              |
| [[ENCHANTMENT]]  | Infusing an object or creature with magical effects or abilities.          |
| [[REPARATION]]   | Repairing the damage done to various forms of material, healing.           |
| [[DISPLACEMENT]] | Transporting an object or creature to another location.                    |
| [[ALTERATION]]   | Warping the nature or dimensions of an object or creature.                 |
| [[GLAMOUR]]      | Projection of a desired experience or emotion to a creature's perception.  |
| [[ILLUSION]]     | Modifying the senses' perception of an object, creature, or space.         |
| [[WEAVING]]      | Construction of a shape or form out of energy or matter.                   |
| [[UNRAVELLING]]  | Deconstruction of energy or matter into simpler concepts.                  |
| [[ANIMATION]]    | Puppeteering inanimate targets to perform actions that imitates life.      |
| [[DIVINATION]]   | Reception of insight into events, items, or people, potentially prophetic. |
| [[STAGNATION]]   | Decay, and the erosion of things in motion.                                |
| [[ACCELERATION]] | Growth to a peak, and the amplification of things in motion.               |
